You have made us for yourself, O Lord, and our 
hearts are restless until they rest in You.
Augustine, Confessions, 1,1

All men by nature desire to know.
Aristotle, Meta. 1, 1

For it is owing to their wonder that men both 
now begin and at first began to philosophize.
Aristotle, Meta 1, 2

Goodness is what all desire
Aristotle, Ethic, i

I have calmed and quieted my soul,
like a child quieted at its mother's breast;
like a child that is quieted is my soul.
Psalms 131 v. 2.

God said to Moses, "I AM WHO I AM." And he
said, "Say this to the sons of Israel, 'I AM 
has sent me to you.'
Exodus 3, 14

The slenderest knowledge that may be obtained of 
the highest things is more desirable than the most 
certain knowledge obtained of lesser things
ST I 5, 1 

The greatest kindness one can render to any man consists 
in leading him from error to truth
Aquinas, Comm. on the Divine Names, XIII, 4

To see a world in a grain of sand
A heaven in a wild flower
To hold infinity in the palm of your hand
And eternity in an hour
William Blake, Auguries of Innocence

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word 
was with God, and the Word was God.
John 1, 1

And the Word became flesh
John 1,  14

No one has ever seen God; the only-begotten Son, who 
is in the bosom of the Father, he has made him known
John 1, 18

Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the
world!
John 1, 29

His mother said to the servants, "Do whatever he tells you."
John 2, 5

For God so loved the world that he gave his only-begotten 
Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but 
have eternal life.
John 3, 16

The woman said to him, "I know that Messiah is coming 
(he who is called Christ); when he comes, he will show 
us all things." Jesus said to her, "I who speak to you 
am he."
John 4, 25-26

When he lies, he speaks according to his own nature, 
for he is a liar and the father of lies.
John 8, 44

"Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am."
John 8, 58

In my Father's house are many rooms; if it were not so, 
would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for 
you? And when I go and prepare a place for you, I will 
come again and will take you to myself, that where I am
you may be also.
John 14, 2,3

He who has seen me has seen the Father
John 14, 9

Jesus answered him, "If a man loves me, he will keep my 
word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to 
him and make our home with him."
John 14, 23

He who abides in me, and I in him, he it is that bears much 
fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.
John 15, 5

This is my commandment, that you love one another as
I have loved you. Greater love has no man than this, 
that a man lay down his life for his friends.
John 15, 12-13

And when he comes, he will convince the world of sin and 
of righteousness and of judgment: of sin, because they
do not believe in me;
John 16, 8-9

And this is eternal life, that they know you the only 
true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.
John 17, 3

The glory which you have given me I have given to them, 
that they may be one even as we are one, I in them and 
you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that 
the world may know that you have sent me and have loved 
them even as you have loved me.
John 17, 22-23

For this I was born, and for this I have come into the
world, to bear witness to the truth. Every one who is of the
truth hears my voice.
John 18, 37

Thomas answered him, "My Lord and my God!" Jesus said to 
him, "You have believed because you have seen me. Blessed 
are those who have not seen and yet believe."
John 20, 28-29

But these are written that you may believe that Jesus is 
the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may 
have life in his name.
John 20, 31

God is love
1 Jn. 4:16

I am the Alpha and the Omega 
Rev. 1, 18

The fool said in his heart, There is no God
Ps. 52:1

Although he was a Son, he learned obedience through what
he suffered; and being made perfect he became the source
of eternal salvation to all who obey him
Heb 5:8-9

I will spend my heaven doing good on earth
Saint Therese of Lisieux, Story of Soul

God is in all things; not, indeed, as part of their 
essence, nor as an accident; but as an agent is present 
to that upon which it works.
ST I 8, 5

He who possesses the more charity, will see God the
more perfectly, and will be the more beatified.
ST I 12, 6

Since this is the essence of evil that it is the privation 
of good, by the very fact that God knows good things, He 
knows evil things also
ST I 14, 10

He wills both Himself to be, and other things to be; but 
Himself as the end, and other things as ordained to that end
ST I 19, 2

The will of God is entirely unchangeable
ST I 19, 7

God wills some things to be done necessarily, some contingently, 
to the right ordering of things, for the building up of the 
universe. Therefore to some effects He has attached necessary 
causes, that cannot fail; but to others defectible and contingent 
causes, from which arise contingent effects
ST I 19, 8

The evil of natural defect, or of punishment, He does will, 
by willing the good to which such evils are attached. 
Thus in willing justice He wills punishment; and in willing 
the preservation of the natural order, He wills some things 
to be naturally corrupted
ST I 19, 9

God loves all existing things. For all existing things, in so 
far as they exist, are good, since the existence of a thing is 
itself a good; and likewise, whatever perfection it possesses.
ST I 20, 2

God loves all things that He has made, and amongst them 
rational creatures more, and of these especially those who 
are members of his only-begotten Son; and much morethan all, 
His only-begotten Son Himself
Saint Augustine, Tract, in Joan, cx

All men agree in desiring the last end, which is happiness.
Saint Augustine, De Trin. xiii. 3

Now the object of the will, i.e., of man's appetite, is 
the universal good; just as the object of the intellect 
is the universal true. Hence it is evident that naught 
can lull man's will, save the universal good. This is 
to be found, not in any creature, but in God alone
ST I-II 2, 8

Final and perfect happiness can consist in nothing 
else than the vision of the Divine Essence
ST I-II 3, 8

If therefore the human intellect, knowing the essence 
of some created effect, knows no more of God than that 
He is ... it is not yet perfectly happy. Consequently, 
for perfect happiness the intellect needs to reach the 
very Essence of the First Cause. And thus it will have 
its perfection through union with God as with that 
object, in which alone man's happiness consists
ST I-II 3, 8

Follow peace with all men, and holiness,
without which no man shall see God
Heb 12:14

Happiness is twofold; the one is imperfect and is had in this
life; the other is perfect, consisting in the vision of God
ST I-II 4, 5

A certain participation of Happiness can be had in this life: 
but perfect and true Happiness cannot be had in this life
ST I-II 5, 3

The justification of the ungodly, which terminates at the 
eternal good of a share in the Godhead, is greater than 
the creation of heaven and earth, which terminates at the 
good of mutable nature.
ST I-II 113, 9

The good of grace of one person is worth more than the 
good of the whole universe
Maritain, The Person and the Common Good
